Source: reddit.com/r/InternationalStudents
Topic: Is the US safe and worth it for international students right now?

Current US situation is terrifying. How can I get out of here?
Posted by u/Electronic-Tax-4873

I am a high school senior and an American citizen. I was planning on going to university in the US to get an undergrad degree, but I doubt anywhere in the US will be safe a year from now.
Now I am looking for somewhere I can get a good education outside of the United States, or any way to get out of the country while not sacrificing my future.
I have been looking at international universities. I only speak English and French though, and it seems most UK, Canadian, or French schools have application deadlines that have passed.

---

Comment by u/Amzamzam:

I personally witnessed two countries crumbling to dictatorships, and while I personally knew that something extremely wrong was going on, everyone around me brushed me off saying it is bad but only for certain groups and you are safe.
Better safe than sorry. Your feelings about the situation are valid.

---

Comment by u/nicolas_06:

What makes the most sense is to do one year in the USA and then switch to a European University if that is what you want. Work on it to understand what countries and what education you want. Look at how you can apply and when you should do it.

---

Comment by u/Passionofneweve:

I understand your fears completely and you do not have to justify those fears to anyone.
Try UCAS for UK universities. They have a clearing function for late applications open until June.
This mechanism is to fill places unfilled by either applicants not getting their required grades or turning down offers.

---

Comment by deleted user:

The situation is bad all over the world, not just America. Here in Europe, the economic engine which is Germany is declining. The right wing is on the rise everywhere, political tension is increasing, and xenophobia and racism are also growing.

I would recommend Germany for studying since tuition fees are lower there. It is also the economic powerhouse of Europe.
France outside of Paris is a good option as well.

---

Comment by u/Zeus-III:

The US is the best in the world for education, opportunities, and jobs. Turn off the news because there is so much propaganda going on. Focus on school and prepare for the job market. You have better chances than international students like me in the US. The grass does not get greener on the other side.

---

Comment by u/banana-itch:

You could do a working holiday or au pair for a year in Australia, the UK, or France. During that time set everything up to go to university. And of course, save up as much money as you can right now and during that year.

---

Comment by u/Rustykilo:

I am a Muslim American who lives in the Deep South and I am not even scared. For all of you who are brown and reading this, do not worry. The US is still the best western country for people like us. If you want to make money and do not want to feel like a second class citizen, the US is the country to do it. I have lived in Europe before. If you want to know what racism is, go over there. They will treat you like you are second class citizen. You can be born there and they still will not treat you like one of them.
