Source: reddit.com/r/InternationalStudents
Topic: Experienced teacher warns international students about studying in the US

I've been teaching international students in the U.S. for 10 years. Please don't come here anymore.
Posted by u/Future_Efficiency299

I have loved my career teaching students from all over the world here in the US, but I want them all to know that this country is not safe or viable for them anymore. What happened to Harvard and the drastic cuts in research funding are just the tip of the iceberg. We are only 4 months into the new administration and look what has already happened.

I am not alone in thinking it is also no longer safe for many US citizens and green card holders. I am leaving this country soon. I am a white US-born citizen and I am still scared.

If these political and social reasons do not sway you, please know that the job market is terrible for most fields and with AI developments, I highly doubt it will get better soon.

---

Comment by u/Either_South7618:

I cannot tell if he posted this to reduce competition or if it is a genuine post.

---

Comment by u/pandi20:

There is genuinely a lot happening in the US right now that is putting international student status in limbo.

---

Comment by u/wanderer1999:

Some people are genuinely fearful, maybe too fearful. And it is also possible that posts like this are posted by bad actors wanting to deter people from coming and reducing competition.

Honestly, things are bad, some things are unprecedented, but we are fighting it. I suggest people try not to blow things out of proportion. The rest of us are staying and we are going to fight this thing out. This is home.

---

Comment by u/DryStatistician6701:

I am a brown person from a humble background who first came to the US as an international student. Many decades later, I am now the cofounder of a successful company and a proud American. My story is not unique.

Yes, the current administration has pursued policies that restrict certain forms of protest for non-citizens and generally has applied immigration rules more strictly. But these real issues coexist with another truth: the US remains home to many of the world's leading universities, research labs, and entrepreneurial ecosystems.

Telling international students do not come here, especially as a US-born white citizen, risks ignoring the very real aspirations of people for whom coming here might be a shot at a life of safety, growth, or academic freedom.

The future is uncertain. It always has been. But fear should not dictate how we pursue our dreams or how we advise others on theirs.

---

Comment by u/Gustavoconte:

Thanks, but I will take my chances in the US. It is a two year master degree program I am going for. It would be over in no time.

---

Comment by u/Jonny-2121:

For any students worried about the UNSW student experience, these situations are usually very rare and should not sway your perception of universities in general.

P.S. The US still has some of the best universities and research opportunities in the world. Consider the risk carefully but do not let fear make the decision for you.
