Source: reddit.com/r/InternationalStudents
Topic: How hard it is for F1, OPT, and H1B visa holders to find jobs in the USA

People don't realize how tough it already is for F1, OPT, and H1B visa holders to find jobs in the U.S. and it is only getting worse.
Posted by u/kundan_2007

I do not think people truly understand how hard it already is for those of us on F1, OPT, or H1B visas to find a job in the US.

You study hard, spend tens of thousands on tuition, do everything right, and still, the moment you apply for a job, one checkbox asking if you require work sponsorship now or in the future decides your fate. Most of the time, your application is rejected before anyone even looks at your resume.

Even though F1 students on OPT can legally work for up to 3 years without sponsorship, companies do not want to take the risk. The moment they hear the word visa, it is over. And if you are already on H1B, many employers do not want to deal with the transfer process or future costs.

It is not just one company. This happens everywhere. You can be qualified, experienced, and ready to work but you will still be filtered out automatically because you are not a citizen or green card holder.

And now with all the talk about increasing H1B fees like the proposed 100 thousand dollar filing fee, it is getting even worse.

---

Comment by u/Elegant-Positive-690:

That is why you go home. It is what I did. Got my education and left. Life is sweet and no red tape.

---

Comment by u/banananavy:

For most folks it is better not to come to the USA in the first place and fund the USA universities.

---

Comment by u/Fantastic_Reveal_599:

I came legally to this country as F1 student 6 years ago, got a job under OPT (took me 2 months but found it), worked my ass off and got an H1B visa, applied for a green card, and I am just 2 years from citizenship.

It is possible but nobody said it is easy. You need sleepless nights, work overtime, apply like crazy, and then you will do it. Again, not easy but that is how life works.

---

Comment by u/sansac31:

You were exceedingly lucky in that regard and you get to tell your story too. Lots of people will do what you did but do not get anywhere.

---

Comment by u/Necessary-Ad3997:

First of all the current job market is not because of immigrants. It is because of the economy. Even if all the immigrants go back you still will have this bad job market. So do not fall into the deception that the government set up. They are simply pointing fingers.

---

Comment by u/Acrobatic_Category81:

H1B is meant to fill roles that companies are unable to fill with a US citizen. That skill gap no longer exists for many traditional industries like tech that many students still come to the US to study.

It does not really matter when or where an international student decides they want to stay in the US. The only thing that matters is if their skills are needed.

---

Comment by u/Own_Cardiologist_733:

This market is tough for everyone including US citizens. Do not give up but be realistic about how long the job search might take.

---

Practical advice from various comments:

1. Apply for OPT as early as possible, up to 90 days before graduation
2. Use LinkedIn heavily and connect with alumni from your university
3. Target smaller companies that are more flexible about visa situations
4. Consider contract work or staffing agencies as a bridge
5. STEM OPT extension gives you 3 years total if your degree is in a STEM field
6. Start applying for jobs 6 months before graduation, not after
7. Network at career fairs specifically because some companies there are open to sponsoring
8. Be upfront about your visa status early in the process to save time
9. Consider going back home and applying to US companies remotely as an alternative path
